a very warm welcome to ICICI Lombard
General Insurance Company Limited Q4 and
fi23 earnings conference call
from the Senior Management we have with
us today Mr bhargav dasgupta MD and CEO
of the company Mr gopal balachandran CFO
and cro
issant Sanjeev mantri executive director
and Mr alok Agarwal executive director
please note that any statements or
comments made in today's call that may
look like forward-looking statements are
based on information presently available
to the management and do not constitute
an indication of any future performance
as future involved risks and
uncertainties which could cause the
results to differ materially from the
current views bring Express
as a reminder all participant lines will
be in the listen only mode and there
will be an opportunity for you to ask
questions after the presentation
concludes
you need assistance during this
conference call please signal an
operator
so on your touchdown phone please note
that this conference is being recorded
I now have the conference over the Mr
bhargav dance Gupta MD and CEO ICICI
Lombard General Insurance Limited thank
you and over to you sir
thank you anirov and good evening to
each one of you thank you for joining
the earnings conference call of Isis
Lombard General Insurance company for Q4
and F5 2023 I will give you a view of
brief overview of the industry Trends
and developments that we have witnessed
in the past few months post this RCA
phones will share the financial
performance of the company for the
quarter and your ended March 21st 2023.
the Indian economy showing signs of
resilience while the global economic
uncertain remains elevated domestically
all the leading indicators are pointing
towards sustained momentum in the
economic activity however Persistence of
elevated inflation in advanced economies
tightening Financial conditions and
ongoing geopolitical tensions may impact
domestic Force going forward
for the quarter as for data published by
CM then
revealed deliver growth year on year for
private cars however the pendant demands
seems to have settled commercial vehicle
segments continue to deliver a robust
Works while the two wheeler segment in
terms of volumes is still below the
pre-pandemic level
health insurance continues that deliver
over score so commercial lines witness
growth in line in the current market
environment the overall growth of the
industry was highest in the last five
years we remain optimistic with industry
will continue to grow given the
favorable regulatory changes low
penetration and positive customers
sentiments
60 years and performance the GI industry
delivered a gdpi growth of 16.4 percent
for FY 2023
at the same time the underwriting
performance remained weak with the
combination of the industry at 116.2 for
nine months of this year as against
119.2 for nine months F5 2022 from motor
business the combined ratio for the
industry was 123.5 for half year of this
year which includes 28 118.9 for Q3 fi
credited currency as for public
disclosure while there will be graduate
thanks to Improvement in the motorcycle
the combined ratio remains has an fi 22
levels which was at 115.6
The Authority in The Current financial
year introduced various reforms seeking
to expand the markets and increase the
penetration of insurance products during
the quarters The Authority mobicide
extensive management and payments of
commission regulations proposing an
aggregate limit at a counseling level
with essence of 1st April 2023.
moving to a business impact for us
during the Cooperative the company grew
by 6.7 percent
including crop and and one one-off
transaction in the motor segment the
company grew by 12.6 percent as against
the industry growth X crop of 17.9
coming to the group of key segments
there's a slight disturbance coming from
the line
participants
yes and now it's better okay so I just
repeat uh the last line that I spoke uh
coming to course of the key segments
during this quarter in the commercial
lines we experience robust growth driven
by growth of 15.9 percent of the SMA
segment
further during the year we accredited
market share across segments such as
engineering liability and maintainer
market share in the fire segment
in addition to the above another
development of the commercial line
segment was the discontinuance of IRB
rates has minimum rates in the fire
reinsurance treaties due to a regulatory
directory
also the impact of global hardening on
reinsurance terms especially on natural
catastrophic catastrophic production was
experienced by the insurers during April
1 renewals we believe that although this
may create short-term disruption in the
long term this is expected to be
positive and bring in underwriting
discipline at the same time for players
like us who have Capital brand and
presence across multiple lines of
business at scale we should benefit from
this
excluding the one-off transaction the
growth was muted at 0.6 percent as
against the industry growth of 13.1
percent we continue to focus on
profitable sub segments during
historical granular data and rebalance
their portfolio result in a CV mix at
22.3 and 200 makes at 27.8 for next 5
20.
similar to the previous year the overall
health segment continued to be the
fastest growing segment of the industry
during the quarter we grew at 31.1
percent which was higher than the
industry growth of 29 concerns in group
health the employer employee segment the
change in underlying industry pricing
sentiment resulted in customers moving
towards companies which have better
underwriting and service capabilities
resulting in a group health segment uh
to grow by 35.7 during the quarter and
43.9 for the year
as a result of a continuous investment
in retail Health distribution we have
outgrown the industry for Q4 uh fi query
23 with the growth of 19.4 percent and
in the month of March with a growth of
27 percent this was driven by business
source through retail health agency
vertical with two at 30.9 further in the
month of February we undertook a price
increase in our retail Health in general
book at
4.6 million user download till date the
incremental download for the quarter was
close to 1 million
for Q4 of fi 23 water and water growth
of Premium Source through this app was
58.4 percent which is over the previous
quarter of Q3 of every FY 23 thus
contributing 55. uh one core to gdpi for
Q3 of FY 23 this number was
347.9 million or 34.7 crore for Q2 it
was 27.4 code and 51 it was 10 crores
event distribution grew at 14.2 percent
and the non-iscipline distribution grew
at 32.2 percent post pandemic the
recovery and credit growth along with
increase in wallet share in distribution
Partners acquired through the departure
has been the pre-key group driver
our business source through our digital
wanting grew our 19.4 overall our
digital Focus has enabled us to increase
our digital revenues which includes the
I'll take care app to 3.14 billion which
accounts for 6.3 percent of our overall
GDK for the quarter we remain on track
and are focused on both Rivers such as
Innovation digital advancements
launching new products strengthening our
distribution engine rationalizing cost
while scaling about different lines of
business I will now request gopal to
take you through the financial numbers
for the Recently concluded
thanks Michael
good evening to each one of you
author foreign
we have uploaded the results
presentation on our website you can
access it as we walk you through the
performance numbers
cross-direct premium income of the
company was rupees 210.25 billion in FY
2023 as against rupees 179.77 billion in
fy22 a growth of 17 against industry
growth of 16.4 percent
our gdpa growth was primarily driven by
growth in the preferred segments the
overall gdpa offers Property and
Casualty segment grew by 18.9 at rupees
59.73 billion and 523 has against rupees
50.24 million FY 22. on the retail side
of the business GDP of the motor segment
was at rupees 85.82 billion in fy23 as
against rupees 82.8 billion employee 22
registering a growth of 3.7 excluding
the one-off transaction that bhargava
referred to the growth was at 6.9
percent
our agents including the point of sale
distribution count was around 1 lakh 13
000 as on March 31 2023
up from one like six thousand one one
nine as on December 31 2022. the
advanced premium was rupees 32.17
billion as that March 31 2023 at against
rupees 32.79 billion as at December 31
2022 residently combined ratio of 104
4.5 for the full year as against 108.8
in fy22 Combined ratio for the quarter
was on 104.2 percent this year
our investment assets Rose to rupees
431.8 billion at Mass 31 2023 up from
rupees 414.51 billion at December 31
2022 our investment leverage debt of
warrants was 4.15 times
at March 31 2023 as against 4.16 and
December 31 2022 investment income for
the full year was rupees 29.77 billion
as against rupees 30 billion in FY 2022
on a quarterly basis investment income
increased to 8.17 billion in Q4 fy23 as
against rupees 7.06 billion in Q4 F5
our capital gains net of impairment on
investment assets stood at rupees 4.53
billion in FY 2023 as compared to rupees
7.38 billion in fy22 Capital rates in
quarter four fy23 was at rupees 1.59
billion as compared to rupees 1.36
billion in quarter four FY 22. The
Profit before
then that rupees 21.13 billion in f523
whereas
at PBT grew by 39.5 at rupees 5.73
billion Q4 fy23 as against
rupees 4.1 billion in q4fy 22.
consequently profit after tax grew by 36
percent at rupees 17.29 billion fy23 as
against rupees 12.71 billion in fy22
whereas profit after tax grew by 39.8
percent at rupees 4.37 billion Q4 fy23
up from rupees 3.13 billion in Q4 fy22
that includes the reversal of tax
provision of rupees 1.28 billion in Q2
F5 2023 the board of directors of the
company has proposed a final dividend of
rupees 5.5 per share for fy23 the
payment is however subject to approval
of shareholders in the issuing an
original meeting of the company the
overall dividend for FY 2023 including
the proposed final dividend is rupees 10
per share
last year it was 9 rupees per share
written on average Equity was 17.7
percent in fy23 I think is 14.7 percent
in fy22
turn on average equity for the quarter
four FY 23 or 17.2 percent as against 14
in Q4 f522 solvency ratio was 2.5 times
at March 31 2023 as against
2.45 times at December 31 2022 continues
to be higher than the regulatory minimum
of 1.5 times
as I conclude I would like to reiterate
we continue to stay focused on driving
profitable growth sustainable value
creation and safeguarding interest of
policyholders at all times I would like
to thank you all for attending this
earnings call and now we will be happy
to take any questions that you may have
thank you
thank you very much we will now begin
the question and answer session
anyone who wishes to ask a question may
press star and one on their Touchstone
telephone
if you wish to remove yourself from the
question queue you may press star and
two
participants are requested to use
handsets while asking a question
ladies and gentlemen we will wait for a
moment while the question to your
symbols
participants you may press star in one
to ask a question
the first question is from
bnk Securities please go ahead
thank you for the opportunity
questions first from the mobile side so
uh I think uh we will think in the
recent conversations you have mentioned
that there have been some you know small
but positive development on the pricing
side in uh
uh but despite that I think what we are
seeing in your numbers
so just wanted to understand sir uh what
is playing out there and what has the
result here is this a high base effect
or anything else that we need to
understand
and also families you can highlight the
reason for the mortality loss ratio
being higher this quarter because I
checked the work signals and there seems
to be reservab released so so observing
any kind of adverse one of impact that
we have seen in the motor
so the first one is turn up on the motor
own damage
growth numbers I think in line with what
we have been talking about uh why we
continue to be a bit cautious given the
fact that the competitive intensity of
motor stays elevated having said that
you are right we did talk about maybe
some bit of easing in pricing that one
had expected uh to kind of play through
on the motor segment which is why when
you look at the industry combined ratios
for the half years industry combined was
at roughly about 124 if you look at that
number for quarter three that number was
about 118 so clearly I think there seems
to be some signs of a bit of easing in
so far as the industry participants are
concerned in so far as ICC Lombard I
think if you recollect what we had said
was obviously we continue to write the
motor segment through a combination of
both new as well as relatively older
segment and as we have been explaining
we have been also looking at segments
which are slightly older which typically
comes with a slightly higher loss
experience and the relative cost of
acquisition for that particular segment
is relatively lower so friends from an
Roe perspective it made a lot of sense
for us to look at writing that part of
the business and hence to that extent
you would possibly see maybe the loss
ratios slightly elevated
having said that I think what you would
always urge is to not look at maybe any
numbers on a quarter on quarter basis
but rather look at it more on a full
year basis in terms of the opportunity
so that's one on motor third-party loss
ratios again we will continue to make
the same
say that in a given quarter there are a
lot of factors that influence the loss
experience
before in so far as if you ask us
whether there has been any change in our
reserving philosophy or approach there
has been no change in the reserving
philosophy or approach and motor TP
being unlike some of the other segments
which are short tail in terms of loss
development as we know it's a relatively
long tale of planes
and there again I think we would again
urge all of you to look at numbers more
on a full year basis if you look at on a
polar earlier the motor third party loss
ratio for the current year stands at 72
so that's a better reflection of the
loss experience as compared to looking
at the numbers on a quarter on quarter
basis just to add one more point to what
gopal said uh when you compare yui
numbers last year Q4 for us was a very
big quarter for uh in motor business
but otherwise in terms of pushing price
increases that we are actually taking we
supposed to some price increases we will
see whether others follow
ratio is somewhere around uh two percent
uh to 2.2 percent in our number so is
there any impact of the one-off
transaction in this if you could
highlight the reason and uh also uh the
one of transaction if I were to simulate
the number somewhere in the pnl how how
should I you know look look for it
rotation so far as
the net commission is concerned I think
there is uh
there is definitely nothing which is
more one-off we obviously see sexuality
in some of the outcomes when you see on
a quarter and quarter performance
particularly for example on some of the
uh commercial line portfolios we get to
see the experience of how good or bad
the portfolio outcome has been that gets
demonstrated at the end of financial
year particularly in quarter fourth and
hence to that extent you will possibly
be able to see some elements of maybe
profit commission that typically gets
recognized in Q4 but nothing there's
nothing which is like one off and in
general as we have been talking about on
the commercial line our portfolio
experience has been in that sense
profitable and therefore the terms of
commissions that we get from the
reinsurers is what has possibly resulted
in maybe the net commission ratio
reflecting a different number
but otherwise there is no one-off in so
far as this particular recognition is
concerned
thank you
I'll request to join the queue again for
a follow-up question
the next question is from the line of
Avinash Singh from MK Global please go
ahead
foreign
distribution to be passed on to the uh
policyholders now here my question is
that is the regulator sort of a saying
uh to you or the industry that okay you
have to have a kind of a direct version
of the same policy or if not I mean I'm
saying that simply that okay what if a
health policy a retail policy a customer
coming for Renewal now are you supposed
to pass on that if the customer is
willing to pay to your branches your
portal directly are you willing or are
you required now to pass on the this
this commission difference I mean I mean
there is definitely no almost no cost in
terms of direct I can understand the
cost on the new issuance uh but when a
customer is coming for the renewal
directly for help I mean virtually there
is no distribution cost involved so I
mean are you going to pass on are you
required that's number one ones and
stick in the on the you know extensive
management side I mean of course the new
Revolution has come but even for the
existing regulation perspective I mean
for your scale the 31 kind of a reported
excess of management it looks uh I mean
there's something I mean uh the
operating leverage uh is kind of a bit
evasive and to add to that if I see the
p l there is some close to 900 support
crores or like you know close to four
percent of your uh gross premium that is
being charged with say holder's account
whereas the ratio says 31 percent so why
is I mean uh at least from the ratio it
does not appear as if you have brief uh
expensive management by that kind of
amount so what the sort of a connection
I am missing here question thank you
Google second question let me answer the
first I think the direction that the
regulator is taking is
making the regulation more principle
based and leaving in independent
companies with a lot more flexibility to
manage their business in the way they
think appropriate
uh everything that you're that they're
doing at least matter is there giving
insurance companies a bit more Choice
than what we had in the past so even I
mean when it comes to the fact that you
can give a lower commission that is also
a choice even which in the past you were
not explicitly given uh as a company we
still have been giving a lower price in
the online policy by two and a half to
five percent so that's the practice that
we've been doing and we will continue to
do that coming to what will happen
because of this I think you know it is
too early to comment on how uh Market
would uh would adjust to these changes
uh but as I said my sense is that it is
giving a lot more flexibility to us and
a different companies will plan out what
they want to do with these flexibilities
you know do remember that we in certain
products the agent even if let's say
customer reviews online sometime agents
do pay a role in recommending that and
driving that behavior
may not be true for everything but a lot
of times it is that is how it is but as
I said more importantly it's a choice
given to insurance company if you plan
their business strategy
uh
I think the number what you're saying of
31.4 percent is Basis uh for quarter
four based on regulatory stipulated way
of computing the expense of management
ratio uh so there if you see the
denominator as what is being put out on
the footnote it's based on the gross
direct premium income
having said that the threshold on the
expense of management works on the basis
of gross return premiums so when you
kind of compute the numbers on the basis
of gross return premium the 31.4 percent
will stand
revised to let's say 29.5 which is
within the threshold of compliance and
so far as the limits on expensive
management is concerned the same number
on a courier basis what you are seeing
of 29.6 which is again based on Gross
direct premium income in line with the
requirement of the regulation which is
on Gross return premium that number will
be looking like 29 which is again within
the threshold on limits that has been
laid on the expense of management so
that's one your second point on there
seems to be an amount of let's say close
to about 900 crores which is reflected
as a part of the p l uh disclosures uh
what the regulator is also under the
earlier regime which is valid until
March 23 and also stipulated one
compliance is at an aggregate level
which is what I explained very well
within the limits on laid down with the
regulation so as you know they are also
laid down limits for individual lines of
businesses and in case if there are any
line of businesses where possibly the
limits on expenses slightly elevated
then to that extent from a disclosure
perspective so much of the excess is
required to be separately disclosed as a
part of the p l numbers but when the
computation of the combined ratio
happens it factors in for all the
operating expenses that we incur as a
company so it's more a disclosure that
is stipulated by the regulation as
compared to the fact that it is not a
case where at a company level we have
exceeded the limits on extensive
management we are well within the
threshold
okay I think a quick Overlook uh
on the radiance side if I see there are
three kind of a changes happening one of
course the global hardening ingredients
Market the second thing I see you know
that kind of a regulator nursing the
primary ensure that okay go ahead
without any sort of a re-insurance
prescribed or flow rate that was a kind
of a practicing commercial lines of
course that's a kind of a second impact
and thirdly with the new um regulation
coming on the gwp basis or probably I
mean the way some primary companies or
even the insurance companies solid
sitting or start reviews of businesses
where commissions might be I mean uh get
a bit disturbed the kind of a Resource
Commission they would be paying because
now this I guess new um regulation of 30
will be applicable on all these three
things that you know a bit of
dislocation commissions uh you know that
very interest driven flow rates not
really mandated rather uh you know is
just trying to choose and thirdly the
global resistance Market hardening all
this network how is going to sort of
impact uh you know that yours or the
industry Behavior as far as the
commercial line or kind of a a heavily
reduced backline are concerned
change even in the last quarter before
these things were explicitly clear we
were
talking about the fact that some of
these changes would have impact of
course we couldn't anticipate the weight
charging on the reinsurance right till
that time but that's now evident so the
point that you're making is very
absolutely valid so globally if you look
at rates in certain markets it's gone up
by you know 50 60 in our Market is also
gone up by 45 to 60 for most players in
the market
uh that's an input cost to us largely we
uh the on the non-proportion side the
cost has gone up the commissions that
the insurance gives on the proportional
side has gone down so it's a it's a it's
a significant increase in cost
secondly as you like you said that
pricing is largely not mandated to be in
line with the burning cost of the
industry so individual companies can
charge whatever they want to
and hence there is a risk that the
pricing can drop
very positive development uh in the
sense that uh you know it's expected
from the regulator the companies will
reduce their expensive management even
if there's videos of threshold and those
above the expression have to bring it
down to 30 million three years so that
should drive positive behavior in our
amplification so that um I don't see as
a negative existence so the first two
perspective uh you know I think the way
we are seeing the market in the first
month
or the second issue in terms of rates
coming down a specifically one or two
cases have come down but on Aggregates
the rates haven't come down as much as
we would be worried about it's coming
out a little bit but nothing material uh
our sense is that you know usually if it
was a big month uh gives a sense of
where the market is headed and in future
also we are not anticipating a major
drop in commercial rates in the market
simply because the industry cannot
afford to you know as you rightly
identified on one side the cost has gone
up and it's not as if the combination
for the industry was very healthy so I
don't think the industry has too much of
a wherewithal to uh you know reduce
prices uh much maybe there's one or two
episodes you know cases that will happen
but not
excuse
the last one that I'll make is that you
know if you take certain companies go
very aggressive on the property side and
even if it end up burning their treaty
uh the regional market which is
hardening that we are seeing and the
attitude hardening which is the lectures
don't have appetite to give acidity
capacity which you can keep burning and
that's what you see in the market this
year right so if that happens if any
company does that our senses in the next
year they will find it very difficult to
get proper treaty capacity I think this
is some companies travel uh you know
more will struggle if that happens and
if that happens I think we are on a you
know better weekend because we have the
capital and the solvency and the science
to uh to continue and the quality of a
book that we're really writing uh on the
disciplinary underwriting we should
stand to benefit
our experience or our estimate for the
year uh you know we've been given a
guidance as a company that over the next
two years you want to bring it down to
102. we are not changing the rising
inside of this uh cost increase on the
reinsurance side
thank you very much
we'll move on to the next question
the next question is from the line of
prayers Shane from motilal Oswald please
go ahead
oh yeah hi good evening everyone a few
questions from my side uh firstly could
you highlight as to when this one-off
transaction happened in February and
there would be some income and which
line item that that income uh income
sits in uh secondly uh is this one she's
not making motor TP lost wishes because
in past three years we've seen Q4 being
far more elevated than Q3 uh and in one
of the I think if I recollect well in
one of the fourth quarters you had
mentioned that this is that was because
of adverse judgments uh adverse
judgments in that case and thirdly uh
we've seen a sharp a good decline in
terms of uh absolute costs for
advertisement and publicity sales
promotion employee remuneration as you
know that's similar recent decline in
terms of sequentially uh so what is the
kind of language that we should think
about
which we have been kind of explaining
that's something that has happened in
quarter four and uh this is in that
sense something that we did in line with
what let's say other participate have
been possibly doing it in the current
year or maybe
uh to answer that
in so far as your motor third party uh
loss ratio trend line of seasonality
between quarter four there is in that
sense not any specific regionality that
typically gets attached so for example
if you recollect two years back which is
in fy21 at that point of time when we
had possibly seen elevated levels of
motor third-party losses loss issues
being higher we're kind of talk to the
market to say that we did see at that
point of Time incrementally new Supreme
Court judgments that had come through in
terms of defining the basis on which
compensation will get paid to victims of
accidents and hence to that extent when
we kind of evaluated that particular
book we obviously wanted to make sure
that we did not know in which direction
that would take shape in so far as
future settlements are concerned but
having said that given that you always
followed exploded approach to reserving
we obviously wanted to strengthen the
results at that point of time and hence
that extent you would have possibly seen
maybe an elevated quarter four motor
third-party launch number uh the last
year again is more a function depending
on how things have come back in terms of
normalcy because last two years
typically has been periods where we have
seen in different quarters
play out and ends to that extend the
scale of operations will possibly also
be a function of what kind of loss
experience that one exhibits
and thirdly as we keep saying one should
always look at particularly long tail
line of businesses experiences more on
ideally or longer years but definitely
not on a quarter on quarter basis you
should look at it we look at more on
annual numbers as compared to let's say
looking at a quarter on quarter tanks
the last point of yours I think as we
have kept saying uh we do kind of look
at uh productivity and efficiency in the
overall the means of doing business and
hence is where we had kind of spoken
about what bartho just mentioned where
clearly the direction that you want to
take is to bring down the overall
combined from the current levels of
closer to 104 that we have been
operating down to let's say 102 over the
next two years and within that we are
extremely focused on looking at every
element of cost whether it is the cost
of doing business or even any other
Investments that were kind of looking
through so in that sense it is not that
there is any significant change we
continue to make investments in the
health agency platform that we have
spoken about we continue to stay
invested in digital and in line with our
recent uh digital day that we had which
we kind of shared with all of you we
continue to stay invested in this uh
various technology transformation
projects as well so hence to that extent
that is we should look at
in so for the quarter four number
sequences
thank you
foreign
thank you very much
the next question is I'm from the line
of Australia from clsa please go ahead
hi thank you for the opportunity
I have most of my questions are answered
I have one uh now amazing down uh that
the the insurance that did that that
gets added to the grocery premium
um and eventually becomes grossing in
Britain is high for fourth quarter
seasonally or
um because even last year fourth quarter
it was a higher number they said again
if you can help me understand this
so that's so nothing's nothing unusual
Shreya in that sense I think that we
look at any again the reinsurance invert
is again an opportunity that once is
depending on how we are able to get
businesses for a particular period
um so in general yes there could be some
kind of a seasonality attached to it for
example you would see on the corporate
side to be significantly heavy in q1 you
can see retail to be significantly heavy
in Q3 you may see Q2 and Q3 seasonality
attached to crop so therefore different
businesses exhibit and maybe retail
health for the matter of fact to some
extent I would say attached to some
seasonality in Q4 as well so hence there
are different lines of businesses that
exhibit seasonality and to that extent
the reinsurance in work could also be
one of them but at the end of the day
whichever segment that we are talking
about we obviously look at it from the
ultimate lens of profitable growth so in
fourth quarter this is heavy because of
uh health is because commercial is
mostly not necessarily I am all that I'm
saying all that I'm referring to is
different segments of businesses could
have seasonality attached to it as an
example I am not saying in the context
of reinsurance inward even on the direct
side on retail Health you will possibly
see Q4 to be a slightly seasonally
higher quarter
reinsurance inward could be a mix of
business across different segments it
need not be necessarily only held
okay okay okay got it yeah that was my
only question
thank you
next question is from the line of nidesh
chain from investec please go ahead
uh thanks for the opportunities there's
three questions firstly on the combined
ratio uh what is the impact of this
one-off transaction on our combined
ratio of 10 or 420 percent
uh secondly uh what is the health agency
gdpi in absolute terms for f523 and
c4523
and lastly uh we have got access to HDFC
bank and access bank if you can share
how is the progress there what is the
business which we have been able to
Source from these channels uh in f523
and q4f identities
I think we are quite happy with uh as we
said in the covering uh you know remarks
most of the distribution channels that
we got through the merger with badly uh
we are quite happy with the progress
that we've made uh in those specific
partners that you're talking about the
large Bank of partners that we've got in
both these uh
relationships with the increase the
share of wallet uh in fact month and
month quarter and quarter even during
this year visually when we had announced
a transaction to now it residual
increase in a share of knowledge
I'll ask gopal to answer the last thing
that was two questions
yeah so in so far as maybe I will take
the second thought first
in terms of the split of uh Health gdpi
that for the full year is that about uh
47.82 billion rupees that's for fy23 and
for fy22 that number was 34.87
on the point on the impact of uh
combined issue nitesh the fact that it's
a commercially viable transaction is why
we have done that and ends to that
extent in terms of it does not have any
uh material impact in so far as the
overall combined ratio is considered
we're doing
so there's minor positive impact on
combination that is the way we should
decide that is correct
and then on the health agency I was
talking about health agency gdpi uh for
f523 or fi 22 so uh 47.82 billion is
Total Health uh GDP agency GDP I was
looking for
so the health agency gdpi for the full
year stands at about 5.6 billion
foreign
thank you
next question is from the line of maduka
from nawama please go ahead
first uh you know
um on the regulatory chain side the
expensive management now allows the
differentiate between the sahis and The
General insurance as far as the health
business is concerned
30 percent does that
create some sort of uh you know uneven
planes uh like uh uneven uh field uh for
the industry and for you guys
uh and second uh you know I see that you
are investment income uh has improved
considerably in eq4 and also if you look
at the Q3 balance sheet versus uh
control balance sheet the unrealized
games have dropped significantly from
about 550 equals to about 213 crores
so has there been uh you know
an increasing realized games in this in
this quarter which is resulted in strong
investment income performance those
would be my two questions yeah
yeah so um
I mean you know I think principally any
difference in regulation is not uh
you know something that is useful but
having said that I think salary is a
general problem in the sense that they
are single product companies so we can
refray cost across multiple businesses
they can't
uh when we look at the fact that as a
multi-line company we write different
types of businesses where the cost of
distribution is lower we don't see a big
disadvantage uh because sahi is a
certified person and we have 30. because
we have other products where the cost of
distribution will be lower
than let's say the health business even
for us the health business would be
higher but we have some advantage in the
other languages
uh on the second question uh on the
investment side
um
yeah so uh so if you look at on the uh
Master Market side the drop in from 550
crore so let's say 200 crores and in
that context the point that you asked as
to whether there is a significant
increase in capital gains for this
quarter visibly let's say quarter four
of last year so there is in that sense
there is not a significant increase if
you look at Q4 of the current years the
capital gains stood at about
1.59 as compared to 1.36 billion which
was the capital gain that one I've seen
in quarter four of last year
uh to your other point on the quarter on
quarter increase in the overall
investment income that is exactly what
we have been talking about to say that
any increase in the interstate regime
obviously ogres well for us given the
fact that as the portfolio starts to get
rebalanced in terms of a mix of
investment assets which gets invested in
a relatively higher yield you will start
seeing on an incremental quarter maybe
the interest income getting reflected
appropriately so that's the only reason
why you see possibly the increase in you
know investment income otherwise there
is nothing else that is attached to
those numbers just one more point to add
to what gopal sir on the investment side
uh I think you know we were probably
we the correct in expecting the
interested movement in the market and at
this point in time it seems to be a
current decision where we increase the
duration of our portfolio in the first
half of the year and that's also playing
out because of the encryption key in the
field Google is talking about we've been
able to take advantage because we
increase the duration of the portfolio
in the first episode
thank you
next question is from the line of subra
team datta from Ambit Capital please go
ahead
hello thanks for the opportunity so I
have two questions one on the health
retail Health site could you talk about
the investment opportunities that you
are looking at going forward also what
these investment opportunities include
an acquisition to drive the retail
health and they are a channel faster
that's first secondly
[Music]
clearly the signs are very very positive
if you see our second half growth in
retail Health business we generally are
performing the market uh having said
that we don't think that the true level
of productivity that we expect them to
be so there are still some traction on
the investment that we've made in terms
of improvement in the top line from that
channel that we've added
what we decided to do is as we go
through the year we would look at how uh
you know where we are reaching with that
investment and we will uh you know
opportunistically add more resources to
see that to ensure that the investment
Focus remains on building the district
so as we've said over the last few years
our retail Health uh market share is you
know much worse than an average and our
plan is to Endeavor it through over the
years we will build it up so that Focus
remains with regard to acquisition uh
you know I don't want to build a
specific conversation about any you know
one segment or one one specific company
I think we've always been saying that uh
if there are uh you know viable
opportunities in the market where you
know an opportunity which gives us
access to our new distribution or a new
business
has also comes with a reasonable price
we are always open but there is nothing
specific that we are looking at at this
point in time
and uh to the third question on the urr
I think your RRS we have been explaining
even in the earlier quarters is purely a
function of uh earning the premiums over
the contract period uh and hence that
extent depending on again as I was
explaining in response to an earlier
call there are certain lines of
businesses which could possibly depict
in some quarters maybe a faster earnings
so for example you will see maybe the
crop insurance segment typically
operates for particular seasons not that
we are writing a very large proportion
of that particular book but in terms of
any impact that one would see on the net
earned premium you could see some
sequentiality attached to it but
otherwise URL is purely a function of
the way the portfolio gets earned over
the contract period and yes if you are
if you had to see last year for example
in FY 22 the overall growth was only
about 4.7 percent whereas if you look at
our growth for the current year it's at
about 17 so that's again a factor that
one will have to take into consideration
when you look at earnings of urr over a
period of time it's not there is in that
sense nothing one else which is there as
a part of the unexpected number
thank you
next question is from the line of sanket
Gora from a vendors Park please go ahead
yeah thank you thank you for the
opportunity
I want you to understand what exactly
you are going to do with the crop
insurance business in fi 24 because
because this year this day last year for
the access business what you acquired so
so given given the year in rules are
around uh and and if you intend to focus
more on retail business which are
operating since you do we go a little
aggressive on the crop business in the
current case that's the first question
yeah so let me answer that so are we
going will we go aggressive on crop
business just because of your
flexibility the answer is no uh we had
said at the beginning of or even last
year last couple of years that you know
post the acquisition we had said that we
will continue to have some exposure to
the crop business now given that overall
Market has improved there are new
schemes which are coming in uh and the
capacity in the market which is the
total number of players in the market
has reduced but we have been clear that
is four to five percent of our business
that narrative does not change we are
not changing any of those uh objectives
just because
got it and and given given uh the
reinsurance market as you highlighted
has hardened and probably the commercial
lines potentially could see a lower
profitability in the current year
because of the rules changes or your own
rooms so uh the Glide path what you have
mentioned that one zero four combined
gradually improving to 102 by 525 uh
despite competitive intensity increasing
in a few profitable lines uh you still
still continue to maintain that one zero
two by 525 will be achieved or or there
could be a deviation
the profitability may not be in line
with what we have in the past but at the
same time we've taken a lot of calls
during the year which will play through
in the future is our expectation
um you know actions that you paid now
helps you in the in the next year so we
are uh we are reasonably optimistic and
we will continue to deliver on that like
part that we've talked about when it
comes to commercial lines also you know
I think one of the things that which
happens on the ground is that there's a
lot of calls that are taken at a client
level profitability so if you are making
a bit more money in fire you may be a
bit uh relaxed in pricing your group
health or Marines
okay so it's let's say fire profitable
comes on Google profitability or rather
you know the aggressional group and
should reduce so those are the
expectation that we've had that we have
and you know some of those changes we've
seen in the group inside as you see
we've not seen an improvement in Milling
numbers you know weights as yet but
overall we believe that we will continue
to manage the uh you know commercial
line business profitably the combination
May deteriorate a little bit but that's
something that will make up from the
other lines of business whereas this
year was uh very stressed here in terms
of combination some of those lines
lastly the health investment that we
made
we will get some you know benefits there
some of the channels that we got from
bharti AXA by the integration you know
there were early days of investment into
including some of the even large
distribution Partners yeah those are all
beginning to come within reasonable
numbers in terms of combined so all put
together we are reasonably considered
about these numbers
bucket and and last one uh if you can
give the retail Health the loss ratio
and Group Health loss ratio for the
quarter and for the full year and and
given the price hike you have taken 19
percentage I believe it is both for you
and the green World Part uh then then
um uh can we expect a significant
Improvement in the retail Halls a lot
as usual so far as quarter four uh
Health uh ghi loss issues are concerned
that's at 93.2
and uh so the retail Indemnity loss
ratios for the quarter is about 61 and
if you recollect even in the last
quarter uh when when I think you had
only asked what has been the lottery
shows where kind of talked about saying
that the group calls will possibly end
the year with the last ratio of close
with about 95 so if you look at a four
year basis the ghi book loss ratio
stands at about 95. and the retail
Indemnity loss ratio stands at about 64
uh so that's the breakup in so far as
the loss numbers are concerned your
second point on uh the increase in the
pricing uh the increase in prices with
respect to the renewable book
um it's not that it's on the entire book
that's one that's applied the uh
increase in pricing but having said that
yes to some extent there will be an
improvement in the overall loss
experience but at the same time as you
rightly mentioned there is always an
element of Health inflation that one
sees and going ahead in fy24 we
obviously will also have to see what
kind of a business links that one is
able to source so there are various
factors that would influence the overall
loss number as we have said even in the
past like in general we believe the
retail Health Indemnity books should
kind of operate at a loss ratio range
which will be between 65 to 70 percent
next question is from the line of core
of single from Matrix management please
go ahead
thanks for taking my question so that's
just one question from my side I'm so
for the investment
what's the uh average maturity and also
uh what's the difference roughly between
the yield that we are realizing on the
on the investment book right now
excluding capital gains
and uh and and the incremental yield
that we can invest by maintaining the
same average duration thank you
so the duration of the book
of the year after 23 was 4.99 uh this is
slightly lower duration than what we had
at the end of nine months because you
know in the month of March we had a very
good inflows into the portfolio largely
because
so that money obviously was not invested
we didn't have enough time to invest in
a long division one so that's sitting on
cash so hence the duration of portfolio
was slightly lower than what it was uh
as on nine months so it's about 4.99
roughly about five YTM of the portfolio
is is carrying an yield of over 7.2
percent
come on thank you
thank you
next question is from line of neeraj
social one from UBS Securities please go
ahead
hi so uh what did you know
um
are we going to release the results and
that is considered into our Target
combined position
we are still not assuming any change in
the underlying pattern and we spoke last
time you know we uh what's happening on
the ground kind of Remains the Same
we've had different judgments in
different uh High courts some graduates
in the favor of insurance industry some
judgments not so fair in favor of
Industry so what we are what we are uh
doing is we are observing the trends
there are certain months where it seems
like it is accelerating certain months
the data is not very clear so as we've
been saying when you have to watch this
data for some time I think what we'll
have to see is
cases that has got reported with beyond
the six month period obviously we are
contesting all of that we will have to
see in the course how that plays through
uh but we are not assuming any benefit
so we even we will be hopeful there is a
longer term which will come uh you know
uh the courts will rule in favor of the
insurance industry because this is all
the land but at this point in time we
are not factoring anything in it the
second thing that you remember in TP is
that we've not seen a pie size right and
in TP we assume a certain claim
inflation as a as a norm as a company
and that came in session increases
something that we have continued to
assume again for the coming years so uh
so not only are you not taking a benefit
we are also assuming a inflation in the
pp claims which is what we've been doing
over the years
driving
yeah so let us wait for them to consume
so this is of course something that you
know uh you know the central Minister
marks will have to get so we have to
wait for something to come through as of
now we have no uh clarification about
the you know the increase uh or any
formulas
which elements were you referring to
on Opex
or that it has gone down both absolutely
there in terms of percentage possibly I
understand it's literally in the world
given uh given the higher than us
but but wanted your thoughts on on all
these sustainable amounts in terms of
absolute language
you should again look at more the
combined ratios of the overall
operations because different segments
again will exhibit uh break breakdowns
of that combined differently I mean
there are portfolio which could be high
on LR but relatively let's say lower
cost of acquisition and conversely the
other way around as well so obviously
we'll have to wait and see how the
portfolio buildup takes place in fy24
but as we have said clearly the
objective is we would want to kind of
stay on that lighted path of combined
coming down from 104 to 102 and secondly
what we are seeing is obviously
encouraging science is some of the
Investments that we spoke about this
particularly on the retail Health uh
agency franchise so those are starting
to play out as you would have seen in
let's say most of the recent months our
growth percentages have been even faster
than even the Standalone Health
companies so clearly those signs are
getting exhibited but having said that
we continue to stay invested in building
that franchise which will again mean
expensing of cost upfront and the
benefit of revenues coming through over
a period of time so a better trajectory
to is to look at more the combined
issues rather than looking at just the
uh let's say expensive Management number
on a standalone basis
got it so can we expect this for RDP
they should do happen in the in the
coming what is actually because it's
having much higher compared to what what
the Sheep was building and but obviously
as you mentioned that this is more so
you know that on the annual basis if you
wanted to understand uh
how one should I look at it any 32 looks
on the IFA
so in general if you look at I mean I'm
just giving a slightly broader range I
think if you look at the loss ratios
they have kind of stayed in the range of
between let's say 70 to 75 in that kind
of threshold uh so again as I said
that's again a function of depending on
what segments of business is one able to
see as an uh area of opportunity and
hence I mean very difficult to kind of
tell you as to what could be the last
ratio uh number that we will be kind of
working with what we are largely
targeting is the combined ratio
threshold to come down to 102 over the
next two years period
thank you
next question is from line of machine
from Kodak Mahindra please go in
hi uh thanks for taking my question uh
I'm looking at the advanced premium uh
you know figures and uh you know for
last couple of quarters this is actually
not been going up but it's come down a
little bit uh you know over the last
three quarters uh this is despite the
fact that you're actually being going
faster in Moto GP so I'm just curious uh
how should we look at this Traders
so if you look at the mission if you
look at uh
in general I think the relative growth
for us on the overall motor has been
kind of uh slightly lower than the
market as what you have seen from public
data uh and relatively if you see the
growth on third party a large part of
the third party growth for us again
which is a thought through approach of
increasing the commercial vehicles
portfolio and there obviously the
commerciality portfolio is not a long
term third party book it's more on
private car and two wheelers is where
the portfolio typically has a longer
term tenure commercial vehicle portfolio
in the current context operates with the
one year term and that's primarily the
reason why you possibly do not see in
that sense a significant change in the
overall Advanced premium numbers as and
when obviously we see the market coming
back as what we have seen some early
signs on let's say on the private card
side we should definitely possibly get
to see the advanced premium numbers uh
maybe increases
thank you
sorry to interrupt your question
ladies and gentlemen will take that as a
last question I will now hand the
conference over to Mr bhargav dance
Gupta for closing comments
oh thank you thank you everyone for
joining the console late in the evening
and look forward to engaging with you
over the next few days thank you again
thank you good night thank you very much
on behalf of ICICI lumbar General
Insurance Company Limited that concludes
this conference thank you for joining us
you may now disconnect your lines
thank you
foreign